We realize that there are three venous systems.
One that would correspond to the neurocranial system, the viscerocranial system, and the
internal system.
From a purely venous perspective, we can say that it corresponds to the level
of the vertebral plexus for the neurocranium,
viscerocranium, 20 gates, and what is internal man, it's everything that is caval system, inferior,
superior.
From an embryological point of view, the Common Cardinal will give us everything that is neuro...
Viscerocranium, vertebral plexus and inferior and superior caval plexus.
superior.
Everything that is vitelline will be essentially for the viscerocranium.
Everything umbilical will disappear and remain in the umbilical system,
with a fibrous system that will terminate,
and with a terminal vessel that will be what we call Meckel's diverticulum.
Terminal part, I have Junot and Lyon, just before Zaval-Vuville de Sécal.
One on the island.
and here there is a small pouch called Meckel's diverticulum which is actually related
to the artery that will regress, it can sometimes cause Meckel's diverticulitis.
sometimes. All this network
that we call the vertebral plexus, already this very interesting link,
the vitelline plexus which will be all
that is related to the portal system and the common cardinal system
which will give the
anterior cardinal system is possible.
exterior and the future coronary sinus. This is the venous sinus.
From the periphery
towards the center, we will see one, what we call the cardinal arteries. These arteries
cardinal
are divided into superior or anterior cardinal and posterior cardinal
or inferior.
Or for the posterior or inferior cardinal veins, they are also called the
mesonephrotic veins.
Your body corresponds to what I call the venous sinus.
What is completely here, the two lateral ones at the top, that corresponds to the superior cardinal vein.
superior.
It is also called the anterior cardinal vein.
The leg here, that moves here, that corresponds to the inferior cardinal vein,
inferior,
which is also called the posterior cardinal vein or mesonephrotic.
-nephrotic.
The valve in the middle will correspond to the umbilical valve, and
in the middle, here, that will correspond to the vitelline valve.
The umbilical ones will disappear.
Hi, thanks, goodbye.
A vestige will remain.
We will see that the part here of the cardinal valve
between the sinus and the thymic valve,
here disappears. On the other hand, the thymic vein
here will make an anastomosis with the right thymic vein
to form what is called the brachiocephalic vein. Between the two up there,
there will be a link that will be made. On the other hand, this
part will disappear, you see. So all
that disappears and only its small hand remains.
which is here, which will correspond to a link to form what
is called the brachiocephalic valve,
so the connection between the left and the right.
The valves that are in the middle, which we call the vitelline valve here,
it will disappear on that side.
The right one will remain and it will make an anastomosis
with the right anterior cardinal valve.
right.
which anastomoses with the right vitelline vein
to form the inferior vena cava.
Why? What are the four components to have a vessel?
1. Trajectory.
2. Metabolic concentration.
3. Vacuolization.
4. Interstitial product.
So that means that if it disappears here, it's because I lose my trajectory or I lose
a concentration, etc.
all that it does and that if it does this it is because there is a new trajectory that is drawn
here I lose components I lose all my components or one of the components is enough there
is
a very interesting link especially on the right side because it's a posterior view you see how
that if this is my vitelline valve there it will disappear
my cardinal valve which is here and
will make a link like that, you understand what I mean with
Like that, and then like that, it will make this crossing that we call the brachiocephalic system.
brachiocephalic.
That's important.
And the second important thing is the calf vein.
So everything above, what will it drain?
It will drain my entire cephalic system and the
neck.
And everything below, it will drain everything that comes thoraco-abdominal.
What is important is to find the global motility of the system.
And the global motility...
of the system is the integration
of my vitelline vesicle
and my amniotic cavity
that develops.
In this movement, I have the entire setup
of my vascular system. We must bring
fluids to the center.
That's the key point. I think
that it's essentially two things
that will change. It's not so much
the evacuation,
because there are fibrous vestiges.
There are certain vessels that,
in fact, when you find them, they become ligaments.
it's mainly a change in trajectory or concentration.
So, what causes me to have changes in trajectory?
It's the change in my shape.
Does the change in shape change the combination of metabolic concentration?
metabolic?
So for me, the first important level is the changes in trajectory.
In any case, that's where I can re-guide myself.
On the other hand, what is important to understand is that the vascular system develops in a way...
way...
lateral, towards the center, but segmentally.
The venous structures of the internal man,
the common cardinal vein here,
and the posterior cardinal vein.
Phenomenon of assimilation, phenomenon of disassimilation.
Two large networks, we start from there.
We saw the development of the heart,
we saw that it ultimately started from its primitive lines,
its point of action.
we found it in the movement of construction of concentration and
the concentration towards its
median line with the corrosion field, the tilting of the heart, what we call the looping
of the heart and the final placement towards the left with a longitudinal concentration axis
longitudinal
then the looping which gave us a perpetual movement of the heart which corresponded to this
movement or to the movement of supination and pronation and then more horizontal
Totally, the establishment of my great vessels, essentially pulmonary
and aortic.
So here, I made a schematic frontal cut, and this is a more three-dimensional schematic cut.
three-dimensional.
So we see that the cardinal system is much more posterior, you see, compared
to my umbilical system which is more anterior and vitelline which is more anterior.
So I have one network that develops more posteriorly and two networks that develop more anteriorly.
Now, at the level of my systems...
the posterior cardinal veins or inferior cardinal veins or mesonephrotic veins.
mesonephrotic.
From my cardinal network will arise a second network that we will call the subcardinal veins.
They emerge at the base of the cardinal veins, they emerge,
the largest part of the left subcardinal vein will regress,
the right subcardinal vein will lose its connection with the posterior cardinal vein
and develops a new anastomosis.
as we saw with the vitelline vein, it will form what is called the caval system.
By doing this part, it will form the inferior vena cava which is between the liver and the kidney.
The derivatives of these subcardinals will form the suprarenal, testicular veins,
inferior vena cava, left renal and supracardinal. Just these cardinal veins,
we agree? We saw that they were a product of dissimilation that was organized
by the four components, vacuolization, trajectory.
I have a subcardinal vein here, it's the first, posterior subcardinal,
I isolate, it comes from the sinus, it's done here, by a network, by
new trajectories,
so it's as if it was budding by an aspiration field and it creates a new
network, but when it buds, it creates a new trajectory here, which
is a segmental trajectory, the other will lose.
trajectory here, and then this will bud together to form
a second network that we
call the subcardinals. And then it will do the same thing again, we
see that there is a whole network
that will disappear and what will remain is my inferior cardinal valve and
certain
small segments. Now if we move forward, what do we see? The only vestige will be finally
it will be finally
the ASIGOS system that will remain.
of this cardinal valve.
It will be replaced by a system called the subcardinals
and then it will become the supracardinals.
You see, these are the blue vestiges of my cardinal veins.
Below, I have the iliac system.
There are no more here.
All my cardinal system has disappeared.
Then I have the subcardinal that arrived,
which will also partly disappear,
but which will just give in purple here, so subcardinal.
What will remain?
It's my segment here that will form.
with this area, the vena cava, which is a combination
of this encounter
between a part of the subcardinal and a part of the supracardinal.
Then it will continue here.
It makes a transversal movement like this, and not like the aorta,
like this.
So that means that a segment knows several parts of
my body on its longitudinal plane afterwards.
Do you understand what I mean there?
So when I have this whole vascular axis, essentially the inferior vena cava,
with the part of the inferior vena cava which, here, is rather from
the supracardinal,
which is renal here, just these small vestiges that come from the subcardinal,
and then what is here which comes rather from the subcardinal system as well.
What we must especially remember is this developmental movement of this subcardinal
in a movement of spotting, of segmental budding that continues.
in fact, the entire network of the system. Azygos and hemi-azygos system, so
all the drainage at the level
thoracic. And then below, I will have everything that is rather mesodermal system,
that is to say
renal, spermatic. We will also have the suprarenal, so
everything that is support system. This,
this is a large vascular network. Here is a connection that is made. We see
well the movement
from the periphery to the center.
We still have this subcardinal here,
I explained that with the entire Azygos system that will develop.
The supracardinal, I told you about it,
which will give the entire thoracic and abdominal part.
Same for the supracardinal, it's the continuation.
With a difference however at the segmental level
for the left side with the entire Hemi-Azygos system
and for the right side the entire Azygos system.
The abdominal region,
it will especially give in this fusion what is called the inferior vena cava.
So it's a network that will ultimately form in broad outline the caval system,
which corresponds to all the drainage of my mesodermal system, that is to say of the internal man, that is to say of the man who is part of the supporting tissue.
that is to say of the internal man, that is to say of the man who is part of the supporting tissue.
The only vestige there will be my brachiocephalic trunk,
and the superior vena cava, and below, it will be my iliacs.
Laterally, we had the cardinal veins.
We saw that it disappears.
Just above, I have a network of brachiocephalic trunks.
Below, my iliacs.
In the center, essentially, I will have the encounter on the caval plane,
with some renal, suprarenal structures,
which are mesodermal type structures,
and azygos.
On the left and on the right,
and my azygos, azygos, okay?
So thoraco-abdominal drainage on the mesodermal plane.